[THEME MUSIC]
>>JAMES KEENAN: I
try to tackle this
from a scientific
perspective, but you
can't deny what you come across
that just is unexplainable.
>>GEORGE NOORY:
Strange things happen?
>>KEENAN: Strange things.
I've had a manual
magnetometer get fried,
and nobody wants to
admit that we're wrong.
History is wrong, and it
needs to be corrected.
>>NOORY: What are
we looking at here?
>>KEENAN: This was underground
into the cavern systems,
and what it looks like is
there was a location that was
origin--
>>NOORY: It looks
like a spaceship.
>>KEENAN: It does.
The zoomorphic figures,
which are the animals
seem to be mesmerized by it.
When it comes to portals, that's
one of my goals in research
is to try to locate these.
>>NOORY: Make sure you
come back, would you?
>>KEENAN: I will.
And what's really interesting
is high amounts of iridium.
>>NOORY: That's
very sought after.
>>KEENAN: And it's very
sought after, exactly.
But what's amazing about this
one is look what's behind me.
>>NOORY: Well, welcome
to Beyond Belief.
Mystery Investigator
James Keenan's work
has led him into
unexplainable events
in the ancient and
lost history, and he
loves doing what he's doing.
How did you get
involved in this, James?
>>KEENAN: Yeah.
Well, thanks for having me.
I appreciate being here.
>>NOORY: My pleasure.
>>KEENAN: So originally
I was in law enforcement,
private investigation.
>>NOORY: Uh-huh.
>>KEENAN: And after
that, I decided
that my background from
college was in anthropology
and archeology, so I
wanted to merge the two
things that I enjoy.
>>NOORY: Good for you.
>>KEENAN: Thank you.
And delve into ancient
lost history, things
that we're told isn't
supposed to have existed
or doesn't exist or
that were incorrect.
And when you look at
what was being taught,
there were just
portions of it that
didn't seem right, that
seemed out of place.
And then it's always
constantly being regurgitated,
the same information, and nobody
wants to break away from that
or admit that there is other
possibilities or the potential
that we're wrong and
that the history is wrong
and it needs to be corrected.
>>NOORY: How far back do you go?
>>KEENAN: So I go as
far back as necessary.
Meaning, my credentials
were in Mesoamerican history
and Mesoamerican anthropology.
But I saw that there was
a connection between North
America, specifically the desert
Southwest area in Mesoamerica.
And you're talking-- some of
this going past the last Ice
Age, in other portions of
it right after we came out
of the Ice Age, that
have been hidden
whether it be purposely or from
just a loss of information.
>>NOORY: You've looked
at the special basin.
It's called the Uinta?
>>KEENAN: Yes.
The Uinta Basin in
Northeastern, Utah.
>>NOORY: Tell me
about this place.
>>KEENAN: Sure.
So there's strange phenomena
that exists on the Uinta Basin
and in the Uinta mountains.
As a matter of fact, you
have two locations there
that have high paranormal
or unexplainable activity.
One of them being
Skinwalker Ranch.
>>NOORY: Oh, yeah.
We know all about
Skinwalker Ranch.
>>KEENAN: All about that.
And then just North
of Skinwalker Ranch,
you have Blind Frog Ranch
as well, which has--
>>NOORY: Blind Frog?
>>KEENAN: Blind Frog Ranch.
>>NOORY: Oh, they come
up with that name, right?
>>KEENAN: Yeah.
So the owner, when he
was originally drilling,
he was looking for hidden
treasure, some of this
being the Aztecs treasure.
He brought the
drill bit back up,
and there were a
ton of blind frogs
that came up out of the hole.
>>NOORY: Literally blind frogs?
>>KEENAN: Blind frogs.
And meaning that there was an
ecosystem underground where
these frogs were
capable of living that
didn't require their need
to have visual capabilities,
but that showed that there's
these underground cavity
systems below.
>>NOORY: Now, when you look
at these images of the basin,
for example, what made you
go there in the first place?
>>KEENAN: Sure.
So originally, it was the
petroglyphs and the pictographs
that were in the area,
because we have these desert
archaic cultures that we don't
really know who they were.
We named them barrier Canyon
style and Fremont culture,
just based upon locations
where we found artifacts.
We tie that into the
petroglyphs and the pictographs.
>>NOORY: What are we
looking at here Jim?
>>KEENAN: So here, this
was just last year,
we actually went underground
into the cavern systems
that are below the Uinta
mountains and the basin.
And we're talking about
major connectivity that
goes 20 to 25 miles east-west
and then north-south that
has tons of underwater
stumps which
would be an underground lake,
underground rivers and swamps.
>>NOORY: Could you fit
under that literally?
Could you slide under there?
Seems it's too close.
>>KEENAN: No.
I could fit under
there, and then
that water just continues
for an unknown amount
of time or length.
>>NOORY: Wow.
And now, this one here that
we're going to look at.
What is this?
>>KEENAN: So, yeah, this is
new technology that I've been
adding recently to my
boots-on-the-ground
investigation.
This is 3D ground imaging.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>KEENAN: What it is is it's
a gradiometer to magnetometers
that take magnetic information
at specific locations
on the planet, and it converts
that vector and that flux
to software, and
the software then
brings out the information
that's below ground.
>>NOORY: Why is there a
different color scheme there?
>>KEENAN: Yeah.
So it's non-invasive.
You don't have to
go into the ground.
The red shows that there are
some type of metal objects
below ground.
That one at 3.87 meters is
a little bit past 12 feet.
And the blue show that there are
voids or other type of cavities
below ground.
And it allows me to see
before having to dig or even
to see if there was
a necessity to dig.
And here there was
obviously a lot
of things that need to
be additionally looked at
and researched at a later date.
>>NOORY: That bottom image
looks like an alien gray
with a hoodie on.
>>KEENAN: It's possible.
>>NOORY: So when you do
these investigations,
what are you looking for?
>>KEENAN: Sure.
So I've always noticed that we
have all this historical data
and information, and
people look into it.
But they seem to be looking at
the same information in history
that's been there.
So I've--
>>NOORY: Over and over and over.
>>KEENAN: Over and over.
It's just regurgitated.
Absolutely.
So I wanted to figure out
a way to go past that.
And what I did was
I've incorporated
more recent technology
into the investigation.
And so if I bring
not just ground
penetrating radar but 3D
ground imaging, different types
of radar, it allows us to
collect these new data points
and show that maybe some of
this unexplainable phenomena
is really due to
certain types of energy,
be it magnetic energy or
electromagnetic field energy.
And my sense of
understanding is maybe
instead of looking
at the phenomena
as we're never going
to find out what it is
or how it functions, maybe if
we're able to see the science
part of it, that might explain
that the phenomena is either
creating what we're seeing,
this unexplainable phenomena,
or is the unexplainable
phenomena attracted
to that energy that's there?
So if we collect
enough data points,
we'll be able to zero in more on
what's happening, because it's
obviously transient,
which is very
unique and different
that it's moving.
But I feel that
it's underground,
and whether it be natural
or man made or other
made, is something that will
be able to eventually locate
and then determine.
And then once we do that,
we're able to determine
whether it's creating the
other phenomena above ground
or how it's affecting
certain types of people.
>>NOORY: Talk about mysteries,
Ancient Civilizations
on Gaia looked at the
discoveries regarding that Utah
area you're talking
about to see if there was
a connection between
Atlantis, the Aztecs,
and other strange mysteries.
>> ANDREW COLLINS:
The Mexica, or Aztecs,
have various traditions about
their point of origin and about
the timing of this event.
Some of them have
no dates at all
and probably go back many,
many thousands of years
arguably even to the time of
Atlantis 11,500 years ago.
>> FREDDY SILVA: If you go
back about 11,000 years ago,
we're talking about a time
of an enormous flood suddenly
overwhelmed the Earth,
huge catastrophe.
There was a-- fire came out in
the sky, parts of a meteorite
crashed upon the Earth, and
this changed the whole structure
of the Earth as
we know it today.
We're talking about a huge
story of multiple nations
who survived, in small
numbers, this huge catastrophe
11,000 years ago and
then populated the tribes
that we know today.
So the Anasazi, the Hopi,
the Navajo, the Aztec,
who then became the Mexica,
all of these peoples
are little crumbs
of original people
that survived a very
ancient catastrophe.
>> Could a cataclysm 11,000
years ago have spurred
a migration of mass proportions
that separated these tribes
into different areas?
The Legend of the
Aztecs suggests
that their people began their
journey from a red Canyon
with four rivers.
Dr. Cecilio Orozco of California
State University, Fresno,
set out to confirm the
actual location of Aztlan.
On March 24, 1990,
Dr. Orozco published
an astonishing conclusion.
By cross-referencing the
description of the land where
the Mohica came from, Orozco was
able to pinpoint the location
of their homeland, Utah.
More specifically,
the Four Corners
region where the borders
of Utah, Arizona, Colorado,
and New Mexico all converge.
>>NOORY: What is so unique,
James, about that area,
that region?
>>KEENAN: So in Utah,
and I tend to push it up
a little further into
Northeastern Utah,
we have this
location that ties in
not just to Mesoamerica
but to the archaic desert
cultures that were here.
And what it looks like is
there was a location that
was origin for a lot of these
cultures and civilizations,
meaning there was some
type of catastrophic event
that occurred.
And they took refuge--
or a certain group
and amount of people
took refuge there in Utah.
And there's different
names for this.
Some of the local
Utah territory,
Indians would call
it [NON-ENGLISH]..
But [NON-ENGLISH] is really
ancient Gaelic and ancient
Hebrew, and it's [NON-ENGLISH].
And it's interesting
how that occurs.
And then you have,
in Mesoamerica,
they called it
[NON-ENGLISH],, or Aztlan.
>>NOORY: How did you
find all this out?
>>KEENAN: So there's multiple
things that I looked at.
One of those was
oral traditions.
I went through the Nahua
which are in Mexico,
and a lot of their
oral traditions
were similar to the Shoshone,
which were the Utah territory
Indians and the Paiute.
And what people fail to realize
is the Ute Indians weren't
really from Utah, they
were more from Colorado
and from New Mexico.
>>NOORY: That's quite a spot.
>>KEENAN: It is.
But their oral traditions
are all very similar.
They just call this origin
point something different.
And then you look at
the fact that they all
speak a similar language,
whether it be Numic or Nahuatl,
it's all Uto-Aztecan.
So how is it that there's
all this similarity
from such different geographic
areas and their stories
all point to what seems to
be in Utah as a place where
they escaped this
catastrophic event.
And in that area, in
Northeastern Utah,
it tends to point towards
a meteor or large asteroid.
>>NOORY: Smacked right down.
>>KEENAN: Smacked
right down there.
And that's why we have all this
magnetic and electromagnetic
anomalies occurring underground.
>>NOORY: Thanks
for understanding.
You may be right there.
>>KEENAN: Yeah.
>>NOORY: You talked about
Skinwalker Ranch and Blind Frog
Ranch.
What are the parallels
between those?
>>KEENAN: Sure.
So they both have this
unexplained phenomena probably
in the number one is UAP, this
unidentified aerial phenomena,
that's occurring.
They've seen a lot of objects in
the air above Skinwalker Ranch.
The owner of Blind
Frog Ranch has
stated that he has
seen nine UFOs appear
in some type of cloud cloaking
devices above Blind Frog Ranch.
You also have this
energy, whether it
be directed energy weapon
or just directed energy
affecting certain people.
And for some, it's
a negative aspect
that it's occurring to them.
>>NOORY: It's never positive?
>>KEENAN: It seems to
rarely be positive.
It's almost always negative.
And then you have these
disconnect voices or some type
of intelligence that seems to be
a little bit greater than what
we are at or where we're at
interacting with individuals
on both ranches.
So it just seems to be-- and
then you also have the cattle
mutilations too--
>>NOORY: Oh my God.
Yeah.
>>KEENAN: --that look to be
occurring at both locations
and even on other areas
of the Uinta Basin.
>>NOORY: Many
people think they're
ET related cattle mutilations.
>>KEENAN: I've heard
that there could
be a possible relationship
between the two,
and they do look at that.
>>NOORY: Let's look
at some slides,
and you can tell
us what these are.
What is this?
>>KEENAN: So this is a natural
marker on Blind Frog Ranch.
>>NOORY: That was carved out.
>>KEENAN: It was
carved out, absolutely.
You see it's too symmetrical
to have been natural.
And what's interesting
is it points directly
towards a hidden
cave that we located.
>>NOORY: Like a marker?
>>KEENAN: Like a marker.
So it's pointing
directly to a cave
that we're going to research
further here in the coming
summer.
>>NOORY: Let's look
at our next image.
Somebody on his phone.
>>KEENAN: So what you got here
is I am at Blind Frog Ranch.
We know that there's
approximately 2 miles
of underground cavern
system where I'm at.
I'm using 3D ground
imaging right
now to detect what locations
those are and what direction
that they're traveling.
>>NOORY: What are you
standing in front of, James?
>>KEENAN: So that was a--
initially before they
had dug straight down,
they dug horizontally
into that hillside.
So they've covered up the
mine shaft area cavern
that they created.
But they realized that
you couldn't get in there
by going horizontal.
We had to go vertical
to get to it.
And it's completely
inundated with water.
>>NOORY: That's fantastic.
Did you do you feel any
kind of special energy when
you're out there or
anything like that?
>>KEENAN: So absolutely.
There's certain energy zones
that are located on Blind Frog
Ranch, and there's
an energy that you
can feel almost anywhere when
you're on Skinwalker Ranch.
Sometimes it seems or I guess
you would say feels benevolent,
other times malevolent, and--
absolutely.
On skin-- excuse me.
On Blind Frog Ranch,
actually they have a location
and they call the pond.
>>NOORY: So something's
looming over that place?
>>KEENAN: There's
a good possibility
that there's something there.
>>NOORY: We've got some caves
and portals at Blind Frog
Ranch.
Take a look.
>> We believe, and there's a
lot of evidence about that,
both from recent humans, that
caves were conceived as portals
as gates to the underworld.
They conceived the underworld
as a world of prosperity
or as the place of
origin of all things.
We believe, in their
opinion, the end of the cave
was the connection
to the netherworld,
and they wanted to get
this connection in order
to communicate and maintain
their relationships
with the entities which are at
the other side of the world.
>> Animals and geometric
signs are the primary subjects
of most of these paintings,
which were executed with
an amazing level of artistic
ability, especially,
considering the
time and conditions.
>> While going through art
and state of consciousness,
they saw the animals
within their vision,
and then they painted
them on the wall.
They then went there in
order to see animals.
They went there in order to
get attached to the cosmos.
And via that, they saw
things within the region
and they put them on the wall.
>> Andrew Collins, an ancient
history researcher and writer
on the significance
of this study.
>>COLLINS: The greatest
takeaway, in my opinion,
relating to this study is not so
much the fact that they come up
with this idea, which is
revolutionary in itself,
but it's the fact that
academics are seriously
considering the idea
that we are communicating
with non-human intelligences.
And that these entities, these
beings may well have been real.
Now, we have to
try and understand
exactly what those entities are.
>>NOORY: What it shows
you is there are people
out there trying to get those
answers you're looking for.
>>KEENAN: Absolutely.
When it comes to portals, that's
one of my goals in research,
is to try to locate these--
>>NOORY: Make sure you
come back, would you?
>>KEENAN: I will.
But what a lot of
people don't realize
is the magnetic
energy that we have
available in certain locations,
many times, are high.
And there's a possibility
that we have these electron
diffusion regions here in
the , not just out in space.
So we have this
magnetic energy that's
capable of being converted
into charged particle energy
by heat and kinetic energy
being forced through a smaller
location, which would
be considered a portal.
So when we charge this
energy and it opens up,
it would be something that
we would be considering
as a vortex or a portal.
And I firmly believe
that the science is there
to show that this can occur.
It's just there are certain
locations around our planet.
Northeastern Utah seems to
be one of the prime examples
where this energy exists.
>>NOORY: And it just happens?
>>KEENAN: It just happens.
And I think we've discussed it
slightly earlier that I believe
there was some type of
meteor or asteroid impact
that brought certain
types of material
to the location that helps
create more of this energy.
And you see, you see a
lot higher mineralization
that's taken place in the
Uinta mountains and the basin,
including high amounts of gold,
and what's really interesting
is high amounts of
iridium, which is rare
unless there was a meteor or--
>>NOORY: That's
very sought after.
>>KEENAN: And it's
Exactly.
>>NOORY: Who did
the petroglyphs?
>>KEENAN: So the petroglyphs
and the pictographs
in that area where the desert
archaic people, the Barrier
Canyon style and the Fremont.
And it's very
interesting and unique.
>>NOORY: Are those carved?
>>KEENAN: Those are petroglyphs.
They've been carved into the
rock art or the rock wall.
What's really interesting
is what's missing in them.
>>NOORY: How old do you
think that is, James?
>>KEENAN: I think
this is probably
anywhere between 2,000 to 8,000
years old, this specific one.
>>NOORY: And what is
that object on the left?
>>KEENAN: Absolutely.
So remember that when
you're talking about--
>>NOORY: That looks
like a spaceship.
>>KEENAN: It does.
Everything is subjective.
But when you look
at it and you think
about it in our current
viewpoints that we're aware of,
it looks like some
type of technology
that looks to have landed.
It looks to be
beaming out something
there looks to be some type
of anthropomorphic figure
that is coming down
from it, meeting up
with another
anthropomorphic figure
and the zoomorphic figures,
which are the animals,
seem to be mesmerized by
it not quite understanding
what's occurring.
>>NOORY: Does that look
like somebody named Steve?
>>KEENAN: And you get the
vandalism unfortunately
all throughout no matter
where that takes place.
>>NOORY: Well, how do we
know the vandalism didn't
do everything?
>>KEENAN: Based
upon whether there's
a lot of ways to look at--
you can look at the patina,
you can look at
the other rock art.
You want to look at it all,
what you see in the area,
not just small amounts of it.
>>NOORY: Sure.
And where are you here?
>>KEENAN: Here we're
at Dry Fork Canyon,
just outside of Vernal, Utah.
And this is one of
the most amazing sets
of petroglyphs that were
done by the Fremont culture,
probably anywhere
between 0 and 1,200 AD.
But what's amazing about this
one is, look what's behind me.
>>NOORY: Oh, it's gorgeous.
>>KEENAN: It's
representing what I believe
to be one of the giants.
It has six digits on its
hands and super large feet.
>>NOORY: The one
right behind you?
>>KEENAN: Well,
they're all giants,
but that one specific
one looks like giant.
And it seems to match what the
neuralgic culture in Sardinia
showed for their giant.
>>NOORY: He's got a sword
in his hand or something?
>>KEENAN: He has a specific
type of weapon and a spear.
The helmet and his
tunic seem to match
what you see that was put
out by the neuralgic culture
and Sardinia.
>>NOORY: What's that coming
out of his side of his head?
>>KEENAN: So that looks
to be some type of helmet
that they wore up on top.
Also, you see that there seems
to be that they were head
hunting, so they have other
indigenous peoples' heads that
they're carrying, which may
have been why some of the local
tribes considered,
like the Si-Te-Cah,
which were the redhead
cannibal giants,
maybe that's where
cannibal came from,
was due to the fact that
they were head hunters.
>>NOORY: Were they particularly
enlightened people?
>>KEENAN: They
look to have been--
they look to have been
maybe pre-human or humankind
where we're currently
at, current mankind.
Maybe they were a
little bit ahead of us.
And then we had this bleed
over where we were with them.
And what's interesting
is you have
certain groups of the giants
like the Starnake, which we're
told were mining giants
in that area that
used tools that made sound.
Well, that tells
me that they had
pneumatic or hydraulic
or electric power
that they were using for that.
You also have the
Si-Te-Cah, which were
the red-haired cannibal giants.
In Mesoamerica, you have the
Uemas and the Quinametzin.
But what you see is
you see a reduction
in height taking place
as it gets closer
to our current time, because
the Native Americans say,
and even the Spaniards came
across these redheaded giants
all the way until the middle
1800s in Nevada and Utah.
So what that's telling
me is at some point,
it looks like in
order to survive,
they had to mate
with Homo sapien,
and that was where that
reduction in height
started to occur.
>>NOORY: Sounds like a
biblical story, doesn't it?
>>KEENAN: It absolutely does.
It sure matches.
>>NOORY: Now, what
other phenomena
is in this basin area?
>>KEENAN: Yeah.
So again, you're getting this
interaction with technology.
It seems to be able to do
weird things with technology,
whether that be
drainage of batteries
or destroying the technology.
I've had a manual--
>>NOORY: Strange things happen.
>>KEENAN: Strange things.
I've had a manual magnetometer
get fried on Blind Frog Ranch,
and that shouldn't
occur, because it isn't
using computers or software.
It's just--
>>NOORY: And it just happens.
>>KEENAN: It just
happened, exactly.
And then you have drones
that there's never
been any issues anywhere
else where they've been used,
fly right into the
wall, because it's
lost all power with
the Wi-Fi connection
and it just doesn't know
what to do but crash.
>>NOORY: That is amazing.
You talked about portals.
On Gaia's program, Deep Space,
they discussed this region.
>> I think there's an ancient
presence in that area just like
at Mount Shasta, and that the
sacred mountain of the East was
a gathering place where all
the Native peoples they did not
fight, and the bloodless
valley was the San Luis Valley
for the Native peoples.
And it was because there
was an ancient connection
between these
interstellar civilizations
and early Native American
people of that area.
And it's still that energy
that presence is still there.
>> As a result of the location,
it's the only area in North
America where 3 regional
groups of Indians overlapped.
>>NOORY: Fascinating.
>>KEENAN: It's very interesting.
>>NOORY: It's everywhere.
How do you pick
your spots to go to?
>>KEENAN: So what
I do is I'll run
a deep historical
background on the location.
>>NOORY: Before
you go out there?
>>KEENAN: Before I go out there.
I want to see exactly,
from an anthropological and
archaeological standpoint,
what the data shows.
Then I want to look at it
from just a layman's terms.
And sometimes you're like,
it just doesn't make sense.
So I want to run a deep
history into the distant past
and gather all that information,
not just from artifacts, not
just from petroglyphs
and pictographs,
but from probably one of
the most important ways
of receiving that,
which is oral tradition
of the indigenous
people that were here.
>>NOORY: When you're
out there James,
do you have that oh wow factor?
>>KEENAN: All the time.
>>NOORY: I figured that.
>>KEENAN: Sometimes
I try to tackle this
from a scientific perspective
as much as I possibly can,
but there is just no way.
>>NOORY: So sometimes
you can't do that?
>>KEENAN: You can't do that.
You can't deny what
you come across
that just is unexplainable.
And I don't like to use
the word paranormal.
I prefer to use unexplainable
because that's what it is.
>>NOORY: I love supernatural.
>>KEENAN: That too.
Absolutely.
But yeah, you come
across this energy
that you feel like it's
interacting with you
and you don't know
what to do about it.
And those are what
I'm looking for.
If I can put the data
points into technology
to what I'm feeling or what
other people have experienced
and show that, hey, this is the
possibility that the two are
merging, that science
and the unknown
can really just be something
that, soon in the future,
we'll find out what that is.
It's not a puzzle
that's unsolvable.
It can be solved with the
technology we have today.
>>NOORY: Have you heard
of David Paulides?
>>KEENAN: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>KEENAN: 411.
>>NOORY: 411 books.
Missing people in regions
like this where people
are walking with somebody, they
turn around, the person's gone.
How do you explain that?
You might be able
to explain that?
>>KEENAN: Sure.
So again, these are those
electron diffusion regions.
I believe that there are certain
areas in this planet where
the energy can be converted.
And other intelligences
know how to do that.
They may be here just
at a different dimension
or a different reality,
and they understand
that connectivity between where
they are and where we are.
And the Native Americans
believe it or not--
>>NOORY: Oh they are on it.
>>KEENAN: Yeah,
through their dance,
through their use of altering
vibration and frequency
with drums and with
certain reed instrument.
>>NOORY: Sound resonance.
>>KEENAN: Sound resonance.
They knew how to create the
technology that we're just now
discovering through science.
>>NOORY: How did we lose this
information, this knowledge?
>>KEENAN: Yeah.
That's a great
question, and it had
to be through some type
of catastrophic event.
>>NOORY: Something severed it?
>>KEENAN: Severed
it, and then people
that are in control
of certain information
don't want to share that,
and it's understandable
when you see what they're trying
to accomplish through that.
>>NOORY: I mean, because I can
see things from my grandfather,
my grandmother told my mother
something, she told me,
I told my kids.
It passes down over the
years, tens and tens of years.
But if something were
to happen to one of us
and that knowledge would
to stop right there,
you wouldn't pick up on it
until somebody stumbled into it.
And I think that's
what's happening here.
>>KEENAN: I agree 100%.
And think about, if we've
written something down,
whether it be on old codicils
or parchment or books,
and there was a
catastrophic event, what
would happen to that?
It would be destroyed.
>>NOORY: Exactly,
and gone forever.
>>KEENAN: What would be the--
gone forever, but what
would be the only thing that
would survive?
Would be the rock art.
The petroglyphs
and the pictographs
have a better chance
of survival based
upon what it's the medium
that's being used along
with oral tradition.
But even oral tradition
gets watered down
or things are incorrectly
told over time.
>>NOORY: When you've been
out there in these regions,
have you felt anything strange?
>>KEENAN: Many times.
Probably when I'm
on Skinwalker Ranch,
you cannot say that you don't
feel something occurring there.
>>NOORY: There's something
very strange there.
>>KEENAN: Something
is very strange there.
And I 100% believe
my hypothesis is
that it's below ground,
whatever this is,
that energy is below ground.
>>NOORY: Would you be able
to see it or record it
with instruments?
>>KEENAN: I believe so.
I think with the
magnetometers, I'm
recording the
magnetic differences.
And if I can follow
that magnetic trail
and then convert that
to 3D ground imaging,
I'll be able to
give locations where
we can dig or match
up known entrances,
and then we would just
have to go underground
and hopefully there's
connectivity, because there's
earthquakes and other
things that could
have severed that in the past.
But at some point,
I believe that we'll
be able to get to what the
causes that are affecting us.
>>NOORY: Let's assume you
stumbled into a portal, James,
what do you see?
>>KEENAN: It's a good question.
>>NOORY: It's all speculation.
>>KEENAN: Yeah.
>>NOORY: But I mean, do you see
the other side of the mountain?
Do you see a different area?
Are you in a different city?
What do you see?
>>KEENAN: Yeah.
I wouldn't know
how to answer that.
>>NOORY: Are you
on another planet?
>>KEENAN: Are you
The one thing too that we need
to take into consideration
as people talk about all
these different dimensions.
With me being a three
dimensional character
were to walk into
a fourth dimension,
would I really exist there?
What would my abilities
using our five senses be?
Would I be able to actually
use them wherever that is?
So maybe that's a limitation
that at some point, hopefully
we'll be able to
further look into.
>>NOORY: That map
we saw of those four
corners of that region,
these areas of Utah and New
Mexico and all these
places, is there something
special about this location?
>>KEENAN: Oh, yeah.
You're on the reservation,
you have this ancient history,
you have these sites like
Dulce, New Mexico where they
state there is UFO phenomena--
>>NOORY: All the time.
>>KEENAN: --all the time.
>>NOORY: Sedona.
>>KEENAN: Sedona, absolutely.
And you're talking about
tons of different cultures
and civilizations coming
together in one area,
but there's so many
similarities why
is that unless the same
phenomenon is occurring.
>>NOORY: Are you convinced
these portals exist?
>>KEENAN: I 100% believe
portals exist, yes.
>>NOORY: Can't see them?
>>KEENAN: I haven't
seen them yet.
>>NOORY: But you
could stumble into it.
And Gaia's Deep Space discuss
these portals in this four
corners region.
Let's look at that.
I want to get your
reaction to this.
>>KEENAN: OK.
>> Portals are actually
different areas.
They're also
described as vortexes.
Most of the portals that
we've gone to examine
are all in places that the
Indigenous people hold sacred.
There's always an oral history
in those indigenous tribes
of strange happenings going on.
We believe that what's
causing the portals, which
are a tear in the electric
membrane that separates
dimensions, are
vast quartz crystal
deposits underneath
the topography,
that these deposits actually
generate electromagnetic fields
so strong that they can
cause a momentary rip
or tear in that membrane.
When you get that
tear occurring,
you have momentary
interaction between dimensions
and we describe that
as being paranormal.
And so what you have is
a scenario by which there
are areas like this where
the fields being generated
are so powerful
that they're causing
this non-stop interaction
with another dimension,
and the only thing
that can explain
the wide array of paranormal
activity taking place
is the fact that
these fields exist,
because they exist in a
very small geographic area
to one another.
Now today, it's almost like the
military is slowly buying up
these areas where
these portals exist,
and they're placing a guard
at the door of each one.
>>NOORY: Is that true?
>>KEENAN: I believe so.
>>NOORY: What are they doing?
>>KEENAN: It's interesting,
and they said it too.
If you're changing magnetic
energy into charged particle
energy that creates
these portals,
it has to happen through
an electromagnetic field.
And we know that
this is occurring.
NASA's right now looking
at that above the Earth
at these x points.
They have for satellites
that are doing that.
So if this can occur between
the sun and the Earth,
we know there's a 93
million mile long portal,
why could it not occur here?
And the Native Americans--
>>NOORY: So that
could be everywhere?
>>KEENAN: It could
be everywhere.
And the Native Americans
have been around
and have kept their history for
so much longer than we have,
that they know
where these exist,
where this energy is
available to do this.
And it's on those lands
and, sure enough, it
seems like the government
is taking more and more
away from us, making it
more difficult for me
to be able to go out there
and investigate boots
on the ground.
I can't do it when it's--
>>NOORY: Several
hundred thousand people
disappear on this
planet every year.
They're just gone.
They vanished.
Nobody knows where they are.
I mean, some of them
maybe were murdered
or something like that,
but not all of them.
Is it conceivable
these poor people
are stumbling into these
portals and they can't get back?
>>KEENAN: Yeah.
I think it's a possibility.
We've seen the Skinwalker
Ranch phenomena
is what people say at
other areas they always
say it's a Skinwalker ranch
phenomena that's occurring.
Well, we've seen,
at other locations,
them actually capture this
occurring on different imaging,
whether it be thermal
or infrared, meaning,
it has to be in a different
radiation spectrum,
the light spectrum is
different, and we're
catching this occurring.
So if I don't have that
equipment or that ability,
and I'm just using
our regular vision,
I wouldn't know it's there
in front of me and walk in,
and how would I get out
once I'm on the other side?
>>NOORY: Are there UFO reports
around these locations?
>>KEENAN: Oh, yeah,
the Uinta Basin
is considered part of UFO
alley, absolutely when
something's going on.
Yeah.
>>NOORY: And there's
got to be a connection.
There are no
coincidences, James.
>>KEENAN: There's
no coincidences.
And you run this
area 335.00 degrees,
and you have areas
like Los Alamos, Dulce.
You go--
>>NOORY: Sedona.
>>KEENAN: Sedona.
And what's interesting is
we detonated a nuclear bomb
underground at this exact spot
in Alamogordo, New Mexico.
>>NOORY: Maybe we
created a portal?
>>KEENAN: Maybe we created
a portal or the energy that
brought in the initial
group or something,
because after that 1945 date,
what started occurring all
the time were all
these UFO sightings,
and it's up and down the same
UFO alley, which goes right
through the Uinta Basin.
>>NOORY: Do you get
many abduction cases
at the same time?
>>KEENAN: So I hear about
those, but it's not something
that I'm tracking
currently right now.
I'm looking into.
>>NOORY: You might want to
look into that in future.
>>KEENAN: Maybe.
>>NOORY: There could
be some correlation
between some of them.
>>KEENAN: There may
very well be there.
>>NOORY: What about time travel?
>>KEENAN: Yeah.
So that's another thing.
When we're talking about these
vortexes or these portals,
maybe we're not going
to a different space,
maybe we're going
to a different time.
If we're affecting space time,
we see, and here's my greatest
example when I'm telling
people, on Skinwalker Ranch,
there have been
creatures that they
have seen that look like
they were from the past.
And I'm talking about
direwolves or things that
would remind us that dinosaurs.
>>NOORY: Should be extinct.
>>KEENAN: Should be extinct what
other way could that possibly
be unless time collapsed
on itself through a portal.
>>NOORY: Good point.
>>KEENAN: Meaning the past
and the present came together.
And we follow these
creatures, we interact,
they've shot these
creatures before,
and it doesn't
seem to harm them.
They seem to notice it, because
we're in the same space but not
the same time.
And as it starts moving back
out into its space time,
it just suddenly disappears.
So we're occupying the same
space but not the same time.
So time travel could
absolutely be taking effect.
And we've seen that
firsthand in multiple people,
whether it had been BASS,
Bigelow Aerospace Advanced
Space Studies, or NIDS,
the National Institute
for Discovery Sciences.
>>NOORY: Which Bigelow
put together as well.
>>KEENAN: He put
together as well.
And they recorded that.
Different groups
have recorded that.
And I've got firsthand knowledge
from some of those best team
members of what they saw.
And where they saw it matches
up where my data points
have been collected.
So I'm a 100% firm believer
that we may be looking at,
not just space portals or
vortexes, but also time portals
and vortexes.
>>NOORY: James, what's
your next project?
>>KEENAN: I will be back
up on the Uinta Basin
starting in June.
We're going to go
back to those markers,
we're going to go
underground, because I
think the answers are--
>>NOORY: Are deep down there.
>>KEENAN: --deep down
there underground.
>>NOORY: Well, you'd be safe.
>>KEENAN: Thank you.
>>NOORY: Thanks for
being on Beyond Belief.
>>KEENAN: I
appreciate being here.
Thanks, George.
>>NOORY: Maybe we'll do a follow
up show with James Keenan,
unless he stumbles into a
portal and he doesn't come back,
you never know, but fascinating.
Thanks for watching
Beyond Belief.
[THEME MUSIC]